docs/akkudoktoreos/adapter/adapternodered.md, before:

% SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
(adapter-nodered-page)=

# Node-RED Adapter

The Node-RED adapter provides a **bidirectional interface** between
**NodeRED** and the **Akkudoktor-EOS (EOS)** energy optimisation system.

It allows EOS to:

* **Receive** entity states and attributes via Node-RED HTTP-IN Node
* **Provide** control instructions via HTTP-IN Node

This enables EOS to integrate seamlessly with Home Assistant–managed devices,
sensors, and energy meters, while keeping EOS **device simulations and optimisation
logic decoupled from HA-specific implementations**.

## 1. Exchanging data between EOS and Home Assistant

### Basic concept

EOS **reads** configuration data and measurements from **Home Assistant entity states**
before each energy management run.

EOS **publishes results** by writing states and attributes to Home Assistant entities.
After each optimisation run, these values are available as standard Home Assistant entities
and can be used like any other sensor or state.

Typical use cases in Home Assistant:

* Dashboards and visualisation
* Automations and scripts
* Device or manufacturer integrations
* Debugging and validation

### Configuration steps in EOS

#### 1. Enable and configure the Home Assistant adapter

EOS must be configured with access to the Home Assistant API. It must be run
as a Home Assistant add-on.

#### 2. Define source entity IDs

Configure EOS to read configuration and measurement entities from Home Assistant.
Typical sources include:

* Configuration entities
* Measurement entities

#### 3. Define target entity IDs

Configure EOS to write the results back to Home Assistant.
Typical targets include:

* Device instruction entities
* Solution / optimisation result entities

#### 4. Run energy optimisation

* EOS reads the source entities before optimisation.
* After the run, EOS writes the device instruction and solution entities back to Home Assistant.

### Configuration steps in Home Assistant

#### 1. Accept entities created by EOS

Entities written by EOS automatically appear in Home Assistant’s state machine.

#### 2. Make entities usable in the UI

* Entities created by EOS have **no unique ID**.
* To use them properly in dashboards, history, or automations, wrap them in **template sensors**.

#### 3. Use EOS data

EOS entities can be referenced in:

* Automations
* Scripts
* Dashboards
* Device control logic

:::{admonition} Warning
:class: warning
Entities created by EOS have **no unique ID**. The unique ID cannot be set by an add-on.
To use the entity information in the Home Assistant UI, a template sensor should be used.
:::

##### Example: UI-usable template sensor for an EOS entity

<!-- pyml disable line-length -->
```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
      - name: "Battery1 Operation Mode"
        unique_id: "battery1_op_mode"
        state: >
          {% set battery1_op_mode = states('sensor.eos_battery1') -%}
          {{ battery1_op_mode }}
        state_class: measurement
````
<!-- pyml enable line-length -->

## 2. Data obtained *from EOS*

### 2.1 Device instruction entity IDs

After each energy optimisation run, EOS produces **device instructions** for the
controlled resources. These instructions are written back to Home Assistant via
dedicated entities.

* The **entity state** represents the device's selected **operation mode**.
* **Entity attributes** provide additional parameters for the operation mode, such as:

  * `operation_mode_factor`
  * Power or rate limits
  * Mode-specific control parameters

> **Note:** Home Assistant automations or device integrations can react to these updates to execute control actions.

### 2.2 Solution entity IDs

Each energy management run produces an **optimisation solution**.

EOS can publish solution-level details to dedicated Home Assistant entities for:

* Debugging and validation
* Visualisation and dashboards
* Gaining deeper insight into optimisation decisions

EOS updates these entities **after each energy management run**.

## 3. Data read by EOS from Home Assistant

Before starting an energy optimisation run, EOS retrieves several categories of
data from Home Assistant, including:

### 3.1 Configuration entity IDs

EOS can synchronise parts of its configuration from Home Assistant entity states.
This is particularly useful for **device (resource) parameters** already provided
by Home Assistant integrations, such as:

* Battery capacity
* Maximum charge or discharge power
* Nominal device ratings

These values are typically consumed by EOS **device simulations** during optimisation.

### 3.2 Device measurement entity IDs

EOS retrieves **measurement values** that describe the *current state* of devices, such as:

* Battery state of charge (SoC)
* Current power or energy levels
* Device availability or readiness indicators

These measurements are used as input for EOS simulations and strongly influence
optimisation results.

### 3.3 Load EMR entity IDs

Load **Energy Meter Readings (EMR)** are used to adapt and refine the **load prediction**.

EOS retrieves these readings from Home Assistant **before each energy management run**
to align forecasts with actual consumption.

### 3.4 PV production EMR entity IDs

PV production **Energy Meter Readings (EMR)** are used to adapt and refine the
**photovoltaic generation forecast**.

EOS retrieves these readings from Home Assistant **before each optimisation run**
to improve forecast accuracy based on real production data.

## 4. Entity state and value conversion

When reading configuration values and measurements from entity states, the adapter
applies the following heuristics to convert the Home Assistant state into a suitable
EOS value:

* **Boolean `True`**: `["y", "yes", "on", "true", "home", "open"]`
* **Boolean `False`**: `["n", "no", "off", "false", "closed"]`
* **`None`**: `["unavailable", "none"]`
* **`float`**: if the value can be converted to a floating-point number
* **`str`**: if none of the above apply

### Recommendation: value conversion in Home Assistant

To adapt, scale, or transform Home Assistant entity values to match EOS
expectations, it is recommended to use
[template sensors](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/template/#sensor).

This keeps value conversion fully within Home Assistant, ensuring a clean and
consistent EOS configuration.

### Example: Battery SoC conversion

Convert a battery state of charge from percentage `[0..100]` to a normalised factor
`[0.0..1.0]`:

<!-- pyml disable line-length -->
```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
      - name: "Battery1 SoC Factor"
        unique_id: "battery1_soc_factor"
        state: >
          {% set bat_charge_soc = states('sensor.battery1_soc_percent') | float(100) -%}
          {{ bat_charge_soc / 100.0 }}
        state_class: measurement
```
<!-- pyml enable line-length -->

## 5. Further processing of EOS data in Home Assistant

Once published, EOS data behaves like any other Home Assistant entity and can be:

* Used as triggers or conditions in automations
* Mapped to device-specific services or integrations
* Visualised in dashboards
* Compared with measured values for monitoring and validation

EOS does **not** directly control devices.
It provides **structured optimisation results**, while Home Assistant remains
responsible for executing the actual control actions.

## 6. Data sent *to EOS* and how

All data sent to EOS is provided via **Home Assistant entity states and attributes**.

| Data type             | HA entity type  | Purpose in EOS       |
| --------------------- | --------------- | -------------------- |
| Configuration values  | Sensor / Number | Device modelling     |
| Measurements          | Sensor          | Initial device state |
| Energy meter readings | Sensor          | Forecast correction  |
| Availability flags    | Binary sensor   | Device availability  |

> EOS always **reads** this data; Home Assistant remains the authoritative source for measurements and configuration.

### Summary

* **EOS** focuses on **forecasting, simulation, and optimisation**
* **Home Assistant** focuses on **measurement, integration, and execution**

The Home Assistant adapter provides a clear, structured interface between both
systems, allowing flexible integration without coupling EOS to Home Assistant
device specifics.

Commit message:

Revise Node-RED integration documentation
Updated documentation to reflect integration with ioBroker and Grafana instead of Home Assistant.

docs/akkudoktoreos/adapter/adapternodered.md, after:

% SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
(adapter-nodered-page)=

# Node-RED Adapter

The Node-RED adapter provides a **bidirectional interface** between
**NodeRED** and the **Akkudoktor-EOS (EOS)** energy optimisation system.

It allows EOS to:

* **Receive** entity states and attributes via Node-RED HTTP-IN Node
* **Provide** control instructions via HTTP-IN Node

This enables EOS to integrate into tools like ioBroker and Grafana,
while keeping EOS **device simulations and optimisation
logic decoupled from other implementations**.

## 1. Exchanging data between EOS and e.g. ioBroker via Node-RED

### Basic concept

EOS **reads** configuration data and measurements from **Home Assistant entity states**
before each energy management run.

EOS **publishes results** by writing states and attributes to Home Assistant entities.
After each optimisation run, these values are available as standard Home Assistant entities
and can be used like any other sensor or state.

Typical use cases in Home Assistant:

* Dashboards and visualisation
* Automations and scripts
* Device or manufacturer integrations
* Debugging and validation

### Configuration steps in EOS

#### 1. Enable and configure the Home Assistant adapter

EOS must be configured with access to the Home Assistant API. It must be run
as a Home Assistant add-on.

#### 2. Define source entity IDs

Configure EOS to read configuration and measurement entities from Home Assistant.
Typical sources include:

* Configuration entities
* Measurement entities

#### 3. Define target entity IDs

Configure EOS to write the results back to Home Assistant.
Typical targets include:

* Device instruction entities
* Solution / optimisation result entities

#### 4. Run energy optimisation

* EOS reads the source entities before optimisation.
* After the run, EOS writes the device instruction and solution entities back to Home Assistant.

### Configuration steps in Home Assistant

#### 1. Accept entities created by EOS

Entities written by EOS automatically appear in Home Assistant’s state machine.

#### 2. Make entities usable in the UI

* Entities created by EOS have **no unique ID**.
* To use them properly in dashboards, history, or automations, wrap them in **template sensors**.

#### 3. Use EOS data

EOS entities can be referenced in:

* Automations
* Scripts
* Dashboards
* Device control logic

:::{admonition} Warning
:class: warning
Entities created by EOS have **no unique ID**. The unique ID cannot be set by an add-on.
To use the entity information in the Home Assistant UI, a template sensor should be used.
:::

##### Example: UI-usable template sensor for an EOS entity

<!-- pyml disable line-length -->
```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
      - name: "Battery1 Operation Mode"
        unique_id: "battery1_op_mode"
        state: >
          {% set battery1_op_mode = states('sensor.eos_battery1') -%}
          {{ battery1_op_mode }}
        state_class: measurement
````
<!-- pyml enable line-length -->

## 2. Data obtained *from EOS*

### 2.1 Device instruction entity IDs

After each energy optimisation run, EOS produces **device instructions** for the
controlled resources. These instructions are written back to Home Assistant via
dedicated entities.

* The **entity state** represents the device's selected **operation mode**.
* **Entity attributes** provide additional parameters for the operation mode, such as:

  * `operation_mode_factor`
  * Power or rate limits
  * Mode-specific control parameters

> **Note:** Home Assistant automations or device integrations can react to these updates to execute control actions.

### 2.2 Solution entity IDs

Each energy management run produces an **optimisation solution**.

EOS can publish solution-level details to dedicated Home Assistant entities for:

* Debugging and validation
* Visualisation and dashboards
* Gaining deeper insight into optimisation decisions

EOS updates these entities **after each energy management run**.

## 3. Data read by EOS from Home Assistant

Before starting an energy optimisation run, EOS retrieves several categories of
data from Home Assistant, including:

### 3.1 Configuration entity IDs

EOS can synchronise parts of its configuration from Home Assistant entity states.
This is particularly useful for **device (resource) parameters** already provided
by Home Assistant integrations, such as:

* Battery capacity
* Maximum charge or discharge power
* Nominal device ratings

These values are typically consumed by EOS **device simulations** during optimisation.

### 3.2 Device measurement entity IDs

EOS retrieves **measurement values** that describe the *current state* of devices, such as:

* Battery state of charge (SoC)
* Current power or energy levels
* Device availability or readiness indicators

These measurements are used as input for EOS simulations and strongly influence
optimisation results.

### 3.3 Load EMR entity IDs

Load **Energy Meter Readings (EMR)** are used to adapt and refine the **load prediction**.

EOS retrieves these readings from Home Assistant **before each energy management run**
to align forecasts with actual consumption.

### 3.4 PV production EMR entity IDs

PV production **Energy Meter Readings (EMR)** are used to adapt and refine the
**photovoltaic generation forecast**.

EOS retrieves these readings from Home Assistant **before each optimisation run**
to improve forecast accuracy based on real production data.

## 4. Entity state and value conversion

When reading configuration values and measurements from entity states, the adapter
applies the following heuristics to convert the Home Assistant state into a suitable
EOS value:

* **Boolean `True`**: `["y", "yes", "on", "true", "home", "open"]`
* **Boolean `False`**: `["n", "no", "off", "false", "closed"]`
* **`None`**: `["unavailable", "none"]`
* **`float`**: if the value can be converted to a floating-point number
* **`str`**: if none of the above apply

### Recommendation: value conversion in Home Assistant

To adapt, scale, or transform Home Assistant entity values to match EOS
expectations, it is recommended to use
[template sensors](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/template/#sensor).

This keeps value conversion fully within Home Assistant, ensuring a clean and
consistent EOS configuration.

### Example: Battery SoC conversion

Convert a battery state of charge from percentage `[0..100]` to a normalised factor
`[0.0..1.0]`:

<!-- pyml disable line-length -->
```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
      - name: "Battery1 SoC Factor"
        unique_id: "battery1_soc_factor"
        state: >
          {% set bat_charge_soc = states('sensor.battery1_soc_percent') | float(100) -%}
          {{ bat_charge_soc / 100.0 }}
        state_class: measurement
```
<!-- pyml enable line-length -->

## 5. Further processing of EOS data in Home Assistant

Once published, EOS data behaves like any other Home Assistant entity and can be:

* Used as triggers or conditions in automations
* Mapped to device-specific services or integrations
* Visualised in dashboards
* Compared with measured values for monitoring and validation

EOS does **not** directly control devices.
It provides **structured optimisation results**, while Home Assistant remains
responsible for executing the actual control actions.

## 6. Data sent *to EOS* and how

All data sent to EOS is provided via **Home Assistant entity states and attributes**.

| Data type             | HA entity type  | Purpose in EOS       |
| --------------------- | --------------- | -------------------- |
| Configuration values  | Sensor / Number | Device modelling     |
| Measurements          | Sensor          | Initial device state |
| Energy meter readings | Sensor          | Forecast correction  |
| Availability flags    | Binary sensor   | Device availability  |

> EOS always **reads** this data; Home Assistant remains the authoritative source for measurements and configuration.

### Summary

* **EOS** focuses on **forecasting, simulation, and optimisation**
* **Home Assistant** focuses on **measurement, integration, and execution**

The Home Assistant adapter provides a clear, structured interface between both
systems, allowing flexible integration without coupling EOS to Home Assistant
device specifics.
