docs/akkudoktoreos/integration.md, before:

% SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
(integration-page)=

# Integration

EOS operates as a [REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/REST) [API](https://restfulapi.net/) server,
allowing for seamless integration with a wide range of home automation systems.

## EOSdash

`EOSdash` is a lightweight support dashboard for EOS. It is pre-integrated with EOS. When enabled,
it can be accessed by navigating to [http://localhost:8503](http://localhost:8503) in your browser.

## Node-RED

[Node-RED](https://nodered.org/) is a programming tool designed for connecting hardware devices,
APIs, and online services in creative and practical ways.

Andreas Schmitz uses [Node-RED](https://nodered.org/) as part of his home automation setup.

### Node-Red Resources

- [Installation Guide (German)](https://meintechblog.de/2024/09/05/andreas-schmitz-joerg-installiert-mein-energieoptimierungssystem/)
  \— A detailed guide on integrating an early version of EOS with `Node-RED`.

## Home Assistant

[Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/) is an open-source home automation platform that
emphasizes local control and user privacy.

(duetting-solution)=

### Home Assistant Resources

- Duetting's [EOS Home Assistant Addon](https://github.com/Duetting/ha_eos_addon) — Additional
  details can be found in this [discussion thread](https://github.com/Akkudoktor-EOS/EOS/discussions/294).

Commit message:

fix: logging, prediction update, multiple bugs
* Fix logging configuration issues that made logging stop operation. Switch to Loguru
  logging (from Python logging). Enable console and file logging with different log levels.
  Add logging documentation.

* Fix logging configuration and EOS configuration out of sync. Added tracking support
  for nested value updates of Pydantic models. This used to update the logging configuration
  when the EOS configurationm for logging is changed. Should keep logging config and EOS
  config in sync as long as all changes to the EOS logging configuration are done by
  set_nested_value(), which is the case for the REST API.

* Fix energy management task looping endlessly after the second update when trying to update
  the last_update datetime.

* Fix get_nested_value() to correctly take values from the dicts in a Pydantic model instance.

* Fix usage of model classes instead of model instances in nested value access when evaluation
  the value type that is associated to each key.

* Fix illegal json format in prediction documentation for PVForecastAkkudoktor provider.

* Fix documentation qirks and add EOS Connect to integrations.

* Support deprecated fields in configuration in documentation generation and EOSdash.

* Enhance EOSdash demo to show BrightSky humidity data (that is often missing)

* Update documentation reference to German EOS installation videos.

Signed-off-by: Bobby Noelte <b0661n0e17e@gmail.com>

docs/akkudoktoreos/integration.md, after:

% SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
(integration-page)=

# Integration

EOS operates as a [REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/REST) [API](https://restfulapi.net/) server,
allowing for seamless integration with a wide range of home automation systems.

## EOSdash

`EOSdash` is a lightweight support dashboard for EOS. It is pre-integrated with EOS. When enabled,
it can be accessed by navigating to [http://localhost:8503](http://localhost:8503) in your browser.

## Node-RED

[Node-RED](https://nodered.org/) is a programming tool designed for connecting hardware devices,
APIs, and online services in creative and practical ways.

Andreas Schmitz uses [Node-RED](https://nodered.org/) as part of his home automation setup.

### Node-Red Resources

- [Installation Guide (German)](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL8_vk9A-s7zLD865Oou6y3EeQLlNtu-Hn)
  \— A detailed guide on integrating EOS with `Node-RED`.

## Home Assistant

[Home Assistant](https://www.home-assistant.io/) is an open-source home automation platform that
emphasizes local control and user privacy.

(duetting-solution)=

### Home Assistant Resources

- Duetting's [EOS Home Assistant Addon](https://github.com/Duetting/ha_eos_addon) — Additional
  details can be found in this [discussion thread](https://github.com/Akkudoktor-EOS/EOS/discussions/294).

## EOS Connect

[EOS connect](https://github.com/ohAnd/EOS_connect) uses `EOS` for energy management and optimization,
and connects to smart home platforms to monitor, forecast, and control energy flows.
