% SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
(resource-page)=

# Resources (Simulations)

## Concepts

The simulations for resources are leaning on general concepts of the [S2 standard].

### Control Types

The control of resources and such what a resource simulation will simulate follows three
basic control principles:

- Operation Mode Based Control (OMBC)
- Fill Rate Based Control (FRBC)
- Demand Driven Based Control (DDBC)

Although these control principles differ enough to separate them into three distinct control types,
there are some common aspects that make them similar:

- Operation Modes
- Transitions and
- Timers.

The objective for a control type is under which circumstances what things can be adjusted, and what
the constraints are for these adjustments. The three control types model a virtual, abstract resource
for simulation.

The abstract resource ignores all details of pyhsical device that are not relevant to energy
management. In addition, physical devices have an enormous variety in parameters, sensors, control
strategies, concerns, safeguards, and so on. It would be practically impossible to develop a
simulation that can
understand all the parameters of all the physical devices on the market. By making the resource more
abstract, its concepts can be translated to all sorts of physical devices, even though internally
they function very differently. As a consequence, it not always possible to make a 100% accurate
description of all the behaviors and constraints in these abstractions. But the abstractions used
in the control types are quite powerful, and should allow you to come pretty close.

The control types basically define how the simulated resource can be described. The user in the end
selects the proper desciption of a physical device using the configuration options provided for
resource simulations. The configuration sets how the simulated resource functions, what it can do and
what kind of constraints it has.

### Resource Simulation

Based on the description of this virtual resource, the resource simulation can make predictions of
what the physical device will do in certain situations, and when it is allowed to execute
instructions generated by the optimization as part of the energy management plan evaluation.

### Resource Status

Once the physical device has changed it's behavior, the resource simulation should be informed
to make the simulation change it's state accordingly.

The actual state of a pyhsical device may be reported to the resource simulation by the
**PUT** `/v1/resource/status` API endpoint.

## Battery

The battery simulation assumes an idealized battery model. Under this model, the battery can be
operated in four discrete operation modes with fill rate based control (FRBC):

| **Operation Mode ID** | **Description**                                                         |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **IDLE**              | Battery neither charges nor discharges; holds its state of charge.      |
| **CHARGE**            | Charge at a specified power rate up to the allowable maximum.           |
| **DISCHARGE**         | Discharge at a specified power rate up to the allowable maximum.        |
| **ALLOW_DISCHARGE**   | Allow the battery to freely discharge depending on its                  |
|                       | instantaneous power setpoint.                                           |

The **operation mode factor** (0.0–1.0) specifies the normalized power rate relative to the
battery's nominal maximum charge or discharge power. A value of 1.0 corresponds to full-rate
charging or discharging, while 0.0 indicates no power transfer. Intermediate values scale the power
proportionally.

The **fill level** (0.0–1.0) specifies the normalized fill level relative to the
battery's nominal maximum charge. A value of 1.0 corresponds to full while 0.0 indicates empty.
Intermediate values scale the fill level proportionally.

### Battery Configuration

### Battery Stati

To keep the battery simulation in synchonization with the actual stati of the battery the following
resource stati may be reported to EOS by the **PUT** `/v1/resource/status` API endpoint.

#### Battery FRBCActuatorStatus

The operation mode the battery is currently operated.

```json
{
  "type": "FRBCActuatorStatus",
  "active_operation_mode_id": "CHARGE",
  "operation_mode_factor": "0.375",
  "previous_operation_mode_id": "IDLE",
  "transistion_timestamp": "20250725T12:00:12"
}
```

#### Battery FRBCStorageStatus

The current battery state of charge (SoC).

```json
{
  "type": "FRBCStorageStatus",
  "present_fill_level": "0.88"
}
```

#### Battery PowerMeasurement

The current power that the battery is charged or discharged with \[W\].

```json
{
  "type": "PowerMeasurement",
  "measurement_timestamp": "20250725T12:00:12",
  "values": [
    {
      "commodity_quantity": "ELECTRIC.POWER.L1",
      "value": "887.5"
    },
    {
      "commodity_quantity": "ELECTRIC.POWER.L2",
      "value": "905.5"
    },
    {
      "commodity_quantity": "ELECTRIC.POWER.L2",
      "value": "1100.7"
    },
  ]
}
```

For symmetric (or unknown) power distribution:

```json
{
  "type": "PowerMeasurement",
  "measurement_timestamp": "20250725T12:00:12",
  "values": [
    {
      "commodity_quantity": "ELECTRIC.POWER.3_PHASE_SYM",
      "value": "1000"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Electric Vehicle Instructions

The electric vehicle control instructions assume an idealized EV battery model. Under this model,
the EV battery can be operated in two operation modes:

| **Operation Mode ID** | **Description**                                                         |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **IDLE**              | Battery neither charges nor discharges; holds its state of charge.      |
| **CHARGE**            | Charge at a specified power rate up to the allowable maximum.           |

The **operation mode factor** (0.0–1.0) specifies the normalized power rate relative to the
battery's nominal maximum charge power. A value of 1.0 corresponds to full-rate charging, while 0.0
indicates no power transfer. Intermediate values scale the power proportionally.

### Home Appliance Instructions

The home appliance instructions assume an idealized home appliance model. Under this model,
the home appliance can be operated in two operation modes:

| **Operation Mode ID** | **Description**                                                         |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **RUN**               | The home appliance is started and runs until the end of it's power      |
|                       | sequence.                                                               |
| **IDLE**              | The home appliance does not run.                                        |

The **operation mode factor** (0.0–1.0) is ignored.
